2-containerise/python-dockerfile/README.md, before:

# TBD

To build & run the container from the Dockerfile:

1. Ensure you are in the correct directory:

   ```bash
   cd <location_cloned>/tech-activities/2-containerise/python-dockerfile #Or whichever directory the .py file and Dockerfile are in
   ```

2. Build the container using docker build (or alternatives):

   ```bash
   docker build -t <enter_name> .
   ```

   e.g.:

   ```bash
   docker build -t python-hello-world .
   ```

   **Please note** not to forget the trailing `.` as this denotes the directory of the Dockerfile

3. Run the image using docker run (or alternatives):

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p <browser_port>:<container_port> <image_name>
   ```

   e.g.:

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3333:3333 python-hello-world
   ```

4. Confirm the container is running using docker ps:
   ```bash
   docker ps
   CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                COMMAND                  CREATED          STATUS          PORTS                    NAMES
   838c62167622   python-hello-world   "python ./helloworld…"   47 minutes ago   Up 47 minutes   0.0.0.0:3333->3333/tcp   reverent_dubinsky
   ```
5. **If using a hello world example** which exposes a port & displays info, access it locally using curl or a browser:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:<exposed_port>/
   ```
   e.g.
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:3333/
   ```

Commit message:

add instructions link for pushing to ICR

2-containerise/python-dockerfile/README.md, after:

# TBD

Below are some example instructions to build, run & push the image / container:

1. Ensure you are in the correct directory:

   ```bash
   cd <location_cloned>/tech-activities/2-containerise/python-dockerfile #Or whichever directory the .py file and Dockerfile are in
   ```

2. Build the container using docker build (or alternatives):

   ```bash
   docker build -t <enter_name> .
   ```

   e.g.:

   ```bash
   docker build -t python-hello-world .
   ```

   **Please note** not to forget the trailing `.` as this denotes the directory of the Dockerfile

3. Run the image using docker run (or alternatives):

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p <browser_port>:<container_port> <image_name>
   ```

   e.g.:

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3333:3333 python-hello-world
   ```

4. Confirm the container is running using docker ps:

   ```bash
   docker ps
   CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                COMMAND                  CREATED          STATUS          PORTS                    NAMES
   838c62167622   python-hello-world   "python ./helloworld…"   47 minutes ago   Up 47 minutes   0.0.0.0:3333->3333/tcp   reverent_dubinsky
   ```

5. **If using a hello world example** which exposes a port & displays info, access it locally using curl or a browser:

   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:<exposed_port>/
   ```

   e.g.

   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:3333/
   ```

6. Push to the IBM Cloud Container Registry (other registries available):

   Follow these instructions: [https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/Registry?topic=Registry-getting-started#gs_registry_images_pushing](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/Registry?topic=Registry-getting-started#gs_registry_images_pushing)
